Nenad Trickovic

<ntrile@gmail.com>
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nenadtrickovic)
Mob., Viber [123-456-7890](tel:1234567890)

Eligibility: Authorized to work in Switzerland (Swiss C permit)
Residence: Canton de Vaud, Switzerland

Position: Senior Oracle APEX & PL/SQL Developer

Professional Summary

* Possesses over two decades of experience in the IT industry, primarily in the telecommunications sector, utilizing Oracle tools and technologies.
* Expertise in Oracle APEX, with a track record of building and maintaining over 100 APEX pages for FCH (Financial Clearing House) within the telecommunications roaming industry.
* Proficient in database design, implementation, and optimization.
* Experience in implementing ELT (Extraction, Loading, and Transformation) using Oracle Database, a deviation from the conventional ELT approach.
* Skilled in setting up ORDS for external access, a use case for extracting data from the in-house system and posting to the general ledger, using Oracle data feed to drive third-party React-based user interfaces.
* Capable of providing second-level production support.
* Familiar with GSMA standards for data exchange.
* Deep understanding of Oracle XML DB.
* Holds Oracle Certifications: Oracle Database PL/SQL Developer Certified Professional, Oracle Autonomous Database Cloud 2021 Certified Specialist, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2021 Architect Professional, Oracle Cloud Database Migration and Integration 2021 Certified Specialist, Oracle Machine Learning using Autonomous Database 2021 Certified Specialist.

Professional Experience

Oracle PL/SQL

* Accumulated over 20 years of experience in PL/SQL Development. The first application was a Payroll application using Oracle Forms and SQL Plus as host environments. With Oracle 7 as the first version offering PL/SQL stored procedures, shifted development effort into that environment and began to develop enhancements to BSCS (rating and billing system for the telecommunications environment). The latest PL/SQL experience stems from developing ETL components of complex systems.

Oracle APEX

* Over 5 years of experience in developing front-end applications using Oracle APEX rapid application development environment. Tasks ranged from creating simple pages generated by the default generator based on database tables to integrating third-party JavaScript libraries like knockout.js into generated pages. For instance, improved page functionality that supports the process of payment allocation against invoices. Also, enhanced the aesthetics of the pages using custom HTML and CSS snippets.

Oracle XMLDB

* Over 5 years of experience in Oracle XMLDB, a standard part of Oracle installation. Tasks included registering XML schema, which implies the creation of underlying database tables, generating XML documents data from database tables following predefined XML schema, using SQL/XML extension, and validating and consuming XML documents to update the Oracle database.

SQL, ETL

* Over 5 years of experience in developing tools to load data from various external data sources and visually presenting it. The code involved the creation of necessary packages and views to load data from external files in CSV or XML format. The final step was to present data in a visual format using APEX as the Front End. This process allowed millions of call data records to be loaded into the system, processed, and made ready for end-user consumption. The development of the code required the implementation of optimization techniques to handle a large amount of data.

Telecommunication Industry

* Over 10 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Possesses a deep understanding of rating and billing processes on both retail and wholesale (Inter Operator Traffic) sides. Developed supporting applications for GSMA standards (EID, PNR, RTDR).

Education

University of Belgrade, Serbia - School of Electrical Engineering

Languages

* Serbian - Native proficiency
* English - Full professional proficiency
* French - Intermediate proficiency (B1)

Career History

Company - since Mar18

Role: Blockchain Development

* Developed Blockchain applications using Solidity programming language and Svelte.
* Particip

ated in Oracle University courses.

Nextgen Clearing Ltd., London City - Dec11 - Feb18

Role: Oracle Data Warehouse, Data Mining, APEX/PLSQL Developer

The Nextgen System supports all aspects of roaming financial clearing, including invoicing, reconciliation of incoming invoices, settlement and payment, debt collection, and management of revenue. It offers fully interactive real-time reporting, foreign exchange services, inter-operator discount management, and roaming hubbing (Open Connectivity). The system's business intelligence is based on Oracle OLAP cube and Data Mining algorithms.

* Managed call data in various formats (csv and XML), loaded into the database, created cubes (defining dimensions and measures), and applied appropriate data mining algorithms (mainly for time series forecasting).
* Developed an in-house ETL system that captures external data in XML format (based on GSMA TD Standards) and stores data into database tables.
* Developed all screens using Oracle APEX, extensively utilizing all features of APEX including dynamic actions, externally supplied plugins, self-developed plugins, HTML, JavaScript/JQuery.
* Managed the IT aspect of the clearing process, which includes data capturing from various data sources (mainly in XML format), payable invoices reconciliation, receivable invoices generation, and payment processing.
* Connected Apache Spark to Oracle DB, fetched the data directly, and populated it in a DataFrame. After data processing, updated database tables to expose them for APEX reports. Used Apache Spark as a common technology that can fulfill the needs, and Oracle RDBMS instead of Hadoop environment to reduce the cost involved in moving the data out of the database and then importing back.

JAT Airways Serbian Airline Company - Jan11 - Aug11

Role: Oracle APEX/PLSQL Consultancy

* Tutored and led a team of 6 in developing an Oracle APEX-based application for control of fuel consumption, leading to a cost reduction of more than 1M Euro per year.
* The central application is around the Technical Log Book, implemented as a set of Oracle APEX Forms and Reports. Extensive use of Dynamic Actions and Plugins was applied to accommodate dynamic look and feel.
* Implemented a set of analysis reports through APEX Reports and Charts. The underlying data was transformed to make statistical calculations in relation to various data segmentation. The goal of these calculations was to find anomalies in flight dynamics.
* The application used external data sources through an XML interface. The most challenging integration was with flight plans obtained from a third party called Navtech.

Maroc Telecom, through Atos Origin, France, Paris - Mar07 - May07

Role: Baseline Setup and Commercial Offers for Internet Services

* Created baseline setup scripts for Internet services (ADSL, Email, DNS, WEB Hosting, Leased Line Internet). Also made a detailed specification for implementing commercial offers based on Internet services.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Du Telecom, mobile operator, (Dubai, UAE) through Atos Origin - Aug06 - Oct06

Role: UAT End to End Testing for Data Warehouse

DU Telecom tracks its services with call data records (CDRs). Since each traffic event results in a CDR, DU Telecom generates several million such records each month. DU Telecom needed to gain a better understanding of its customers' usage patterns, so that it could target profitable products and support cross-selling.

* Participated in writing test scripts for UAT, comparing Business requirements against IT Releases, covering Dimensional Modeling, Performance Tuning, and ETL (Extraction, Transformation, and Load) design, based on Oracle Warehouse Builder and Oracle Discoverer.
* Ensured that business goals were accurately translated into requirements and that systems fulfilled those stated goals. Leveraged my extensive experience

to bridge the gap between senior management and IT in order to deliver BI solutions that provide real business value to an organization.

Vast.com - Apr05 - Dec05

Role: Web Crawler, Java

* Tested a Web crawler for a vertical search engine. The Web crawler was developed in Java. Created test code written in Java to test Web crawler functionality.

Telenor (Mobtel), Serbian mobile operator - Feb03 - Mar05

Role: Integration of surrounding applications with BSCS

* Responsible for the integration of surrounding Applications like POS, IVR, SMS, CRM, etc with BSCS.
* Worked on the project of Migration/deployment & upgrade of E-POS (Phase-1 & 2) in 3 major circles.
* Developed an online bulk updating module for Payment posting in BSCS (PIH).
* Developed Surrounding System Applications (Cost Center/ Free Units/ Segmentation/ Rate plan/ CUG/ Friends & Family/ Bill Cycle bulk updating)
* Part of a service configuration and rate plan configuration team of three, involved in developing rate plans/Free units/ etc.
* Responsible for production support and writing scripts in SQL for various applications in BSCS.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Commercial Offers

* Tested the configuration of the zone, FuOM, discounting in MI module for the commercial offer.
* Managed and coordinated a team for batch testing according to time frame allocation.
* Managed product and services configuration. Involved in marketing and product design, Functionality study on rating and billing.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Business Support

* Stabilized all rating, billing process and configurations after migration.
* Configuration of Rate plans, Tariff related features, and Roaming Operators.
* Error Analysis, Providing solutions to resolve unrated calls and Billing Errors.
* Development of processes for Mass Package plan change, Mass addition of discounts, Mass Bill cycle change, late payment charges.
* Monitoring, guiding, and troubleshooting of billing operations.
* Developing and implementation of the Macro’s for Switch vs. Billing Reconciliation.
* Support to MIS Team.
* Coordinated with SEMA for defects, shipments, and new configurations in the billing system for all the Circles.
* Implementation of shipments and patches on the billing system for all the circles.
* Understanding the IT needs for solutions related to Mobile Internet (GPRS) with Billing/Provisioning.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Mobtel, Serbian mobile operator - Jan98 - Jan03

Role: BSCS

* Worked on BSCS (Business Support and Control System) for 5 years. BSCS is a billing system for mobile operators. BSCS is a product of LHS, Germany.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Telekom Serbia - Jan92 - Dec97

Role: BSCS

* Worked on BSCS (Business Support and Control System) for 5 years. BSCS is a billing system for mobile operators. BSCS is a product of LHS, Germany.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.

Telekom Serbia - Jan88 - Dec91

Role: Payroll

* Worked on Payroll system for 4 years. Payroll is a product of Oracle, USA.
* Extensively used Oracle PL/SQL to complete these tasks.
